>> Kyle: Here's the slide,
the more complex example.
Since you've already practice this,
you should be able to help me
go through this very quickly.
We're gonna run through this code
exactly the same as we did before.
We're gonna compile it first and
then we're gonna execute it.
>> Kyle: All right.
How do we start?
How is the compiler going to start?
Which scope are we talking to,
on line one?
>> Speaker 2: Global.
>> Kyle: Okay, global scope.
I have a formal declaration for-
>> Speaker 2: Foo.
>> Kyle: Foo on line one,
ever heard of him and the answer is?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle: No, but
now I've created that red marble and
put it in the red bucket.
Thanks very much.
What do we do next?
>> Speaker 2: Three?
>> Kyle: Bar?
>> Speaker 2: Bar>
>> Kyle: A global scope.
I have an identifier called 'bar',
ever heard of him?
The answer is-
>> Speaker 2: No.
No.
>> Kyle: But now I've got
another red marble in the red bucket,
called bar.
By the way, that marble happens
to point at a function So
let's step into the function.
What's next?
>> Speaker 2: I don't know.
>> Speaker 3: Scope.
>> Kyle: What scope are we talking to?
>> Speaker 3: Scope of bar.
>> Kyle: A scope of bar.
We have a formal declaration for foo.
Ever heard of any answer is?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Kyle: No,
because this is a different bucket now.
We're not asking about the var
foo in the red bucket,
we're now talking to the blue bucket.
Say, scope of var,
I've got a variable called foo.
Ever heard of him?
And the answer is no.
But now I have a blue marble.
What's next?
A scope of bar,
I have an identifier called baz,
have you heard of him and the answer is?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle: Nope but
now we have another blue
marble in the bucket,
baz is in the blue bucket along with foo,
right?
By the way, baz is pointing a function,
let's go inside of baz and
make another bucket.
This is like the green bucket.
Okay, so now we've made a green bucket for
the scope of baz.
How do we proceed?
>> Speaker 2: A scope of baz.
>> Kyle: What line are we on?
>> Speaker 2: Six.
>> Kyle: A scope
of
>> Speaker 2: baz.
>> Kyle: Baz.
I have a formal declaration for
a parameter called foo,
anyone ever heard of him?
The answer is?
>> Speaker 4: No.
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle: No.
But now we've made a green marble,
with the parameter foo.
Okay?
We keep going.
Anything to do with line 7?
What about the line 8?
No.
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle: So now we step back out.
Now we're on line 10.
Anything to do with line 10?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle: Other than storing metadata,
which we'll come back to at runtime,
there's no formal declarations on those.
If we come back out to the global
scope starting with line 13,
any more formal declarations there?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle: So are we done with compilation?
Okay, great.Now It's
time to execute.Remember,
all the variable declarations and
function declarations have been compiled
away.Where does execution start?
>> Speaker 5: Line one.
>> Kyle: Line one,
how does line one execute?
>> Speaker 5: A global scope.
>> Kyle: A global scope I have a.
I have a left hand reference for foo.
Ever heard of him?
The answer is?
>> Speaker 5: Yes.
>> Kyle: Sure so
now I've been given that red marble back.
I go to the right hand side.
I look at the quote bar.
I have that value.
I make the assignment.
Line one is complete.
Lines three thru eleven have been compiled
away and so execution moves to line 13.
How does line 13 itself execute?
You have to tell me how does
line 13 itself execute.
Same process that we've doing all along.
Hey global scope,
I have a what kind of reference?
Bar?
>> Speaker 2: The left.
>> Speaker 5: Right.
>> Kyle: So some of you say left,
some of you say right.
>> Speaker 5: Right.
>> Speaker 4: Left.
>> Kyle: A left hand reference
is otherwise known as
a target reference, right?
So that would have to be
the target of an assignment.
Is it the target of an assignment?
So if it's not a left hand reference
it must be a right hand reference.
Kind of like with the falsey truthy thing,
it's truthy because it's not in the falsey
list, it's the right hand value
because it's not a left hand value
because it's not receiving the target,
it's not the target we are saying.
Okay, so that's an RHS,
that's a right hand sign value for
an identifier called bar, First time
we've seen that in our examples so far.
Okay, So, we're going to say, hey global
scope, I have an rhs reference for bar and
the answer is?
>> Speaker 2: Yes?
>> Kyle: Yes, so we go and
get that marble out.
That's a red marble, right?
Now we need to know what
is in the value of bars and
since we're using it as a right hand,
we need also the value.
We go look for the value.
What is currently in bar?
>> Speaker 2: A function?
>> Kyle: A function.
Okay?
There's currently a function in bar,
that's great.
So, we go get that function and
then we come to these parenthesis
here on line 13 and we execute it.
So, your instinct is to think of
line 13 as a single statement but
is actually two very separate and
important operations,
the first one Go resolve the bar
expression to find out what value it is.
The second thing is to do
that parenthesis execute.
Parenthesis aren't
technically an operator but
in this case they are sort
of working like an operator.
They are executing the function.
Okay.
Makes sense?
>> Kyle: All right, so now that we
executed bar words is execution rif 2.
>> Speaker 5: Line 4.
>> Kyle: Line 4, how does that go?
>> Kyle: A scope of bar, I have a,
>> Speaker 2: L H S.
>> Kyle: L H S for foo, ever heard of him?
And the answer is?
>> Speaker 2: Yes
>> Kyle: Yes,
because you compiled him
just a few microseconds ago.
Excellent.
So, we find that blue marble now and
then we go to the right hand side we
find quote baz, we make the assignment.
Line four is complete.
Six through nine have been compiled away.
Execution moves to line 10,
how does line 10 execute?
>> Speaker 2: A scope of bar.
>> Kyle: A scope of bar, I have a?
>> Speaker 2: RHS4.
>> Kyle: RHS4.
Baz, ever heard of him?
The answer is?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Kyle: Yes,
because you formally declared him.
Now, what is the value in baz?
A function, so then we go to
the parentheses on line 10 and execute.
Execution then moves to line.
>> Speaker 2: Seven.
>> Kyle: Seven.
How does line seven execute?
>> Speaker 6: A function baz.
>> Kyle: A scope of baz.
I have a.
>> Speaker 6: I have a [CROSSTALK].
>> Kyle: A left hand side reference for
foo.
>> Speaker 6: A left hand side of foo.
>> Kyle: Ever heard of them?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Kyle: Yes,
because you declared them on what line?
The sixth, the parameter, okay?
So now we have the green marble,
we can assign bam into foo,
and we're done with line 7.
How does line 8 execute?
>> Speaker 2: A scope- [CROSSTALK]
>> Kyle: A scope of?
Pass, I have a.
>> Speaker 2: LHS.
>> Kyle: LHS for bam.
Ever heard of him?
The answer is, go fish, all right?
So where do we go next.
>> Speaker 2: We gotta discover bar.
>> Kyle: We gotta discover bar.
A scope of bar, I have a LHS for Bam.
Bam, ever heard of him?
The answer is?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle: Go fish.
Where do we go next?
>> Speaker 2: Global scope.
>> Kyle: A global scope, I have a?
>> Speaker 2: LHS.
>> Kyle: LHS for?
>> Speaker 2: Bam.
>> Kyle: Ever heard of him?
>> Speaker 5: No, but
I will create it for you [LAUGH].
>> Kyle: No, but I went ahead and
created one for you anyway.
Aren't I so helpful?
Argh!
So now we go to the right hand side,
find this yay value.
We assign it into the global variable
bam as opposed to local variable, okay.
Execution finishes with line eight,
that takes us back to ten.
That finishes back to line 13.
How does line 14 execute?
>> Kyle: Hey global scope I have a RHS for
foo, have you ever hear of him?
The answer is?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Kyle: Yes,
we're going to get his value and it is.
>> Speaker 2: bar.
>> Kyle: I heard multiple answers.
Who thinks of something other than var?
>> Kyle: Okay?
It's gonna be bar.
Why is it not baz or bam?
>> Kyle: Those are different marbles.
Even though they have the same name,
we found those in different buckets.
Remember how that look up was
essentially first come, first serve.
We asked the very first
scope that we could find.
So when we were on line
four we didn't care about
the marble in the bucket on line one.
Because we already had a matching one.
It is first come first serve
in terms of that blue bucket.
So foo has the value "baz".
What about line 15?
What does it execute?
A global scope, we have RHS for?
>> Speaker 2: Bam.
>> Kyle: Bam, never heard of him,
the answer is?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Kyle: Well now we have.
Had line 15 been on line 12,
we wouldn't have heard of him, right?
But because it's happened after
bar was called, we now have a bam.
We go ask for the value of bam,
and what is it?
Yay.
>> Speaker 2: Yay.
>> Speaker 4: Undefined.
>> Kyle: No no no.
You have to say it in the most ironic tone
possible.
Yay.
The value of bam is yay.
'Cuz this is a terrible thing to
have a global variable with that
value in it, right?
All right, line 16.
How does line 16 execute?
[CROSSTALK] [INAUDIBLE] I have
a [CROSSTALK] HRS for baz.
Ever heard of it and
the answer is [CROSSTALK] Have we
heard of baz in the global scope?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle: What scope,
what bucket was this one in?
R, It was in the blue bucket right?
So when we are asking, only the global
bucket, Only the red bucket.
We never heard of a bam.
So what do you think.
You think its just gonna go out and
create one for us?
>> Speaker 2: no
>> Kyle: no it gonna throw [INAUDIBLE].
So this is the difference
between [INAUDIBLE] which
is the whole reason I had you understand
the difference between the two.
Because unfulfilled LHS references like
line 8, created an implicit global.
Unfulfilled RHS reference like line 16,
always create a reference center.
Okay?
>> Kyle: In a sense once you learned
strict mode, you don't have to pay any
attention cuz they both created reference
error but when you're not in strict mode,
the difference depends on what
context it was in, make sense?
>> Kyle: Just one final time to reiterate
here an unfulfilled LHS reference,
that is a variable that is referenced
on the left hand side as the target
of an assignment but has never been
formally declared anymore An unfulfilled
lhs reference in no strip mode results
in an implicit global variable.
An unfulfilled rhs reference,
that is, a reference,
a variable in the right hand side
position, the source value position
that has never been formally declared
in any scope that we have access to.
An unfulfilled rhs reference Always
results in a reference error.
Reference error baz is not defined.
And the difference between undefined and
undeclared is what?
>> Speaker 2: Undefined is clear but
doesn't have a.
>> Kyle: And.
>> Speaker 2: And not defined is not-
>> Kyle: Undeclared is
Never formally declared in
any scope we have access to.
Let me say that one last time,
undefined definitely been declared
just at the moment has no value.
And by the way a lot of people like
to think it doesn't have a value yet.
That's what they'll say,
it doesn't have a value yet.
If you just say bar foo semicolon, right.
Well, it turns out a variable
can have a value and
then you can take the value away.
You can assign the undefined
value to a variable,
which has the effect of getting rid
of any other value that it had.
So the most appropriate thing
is an undefined variable
is a variable that does not
currently have any other value.
That's the way to say it.
A variable that does not
currently have any other variable.
Any other value.
>> Kyle: I like to think of
this lexical scope like this.
This is the metaphor and
this is how we'll wrap For
now, we like to think of this as
sort of like a lookup process kinda
like if you were looking for
somebody's office in a building and
he said hey I need you to come
to my office and just find me.
So you'd start in the first floor and
you'd say do I have that
office on this floor?
The first four represents the current
scope, if you don't find it,
you go up one level.
And then you go up and
you go up and you go up and
you either find it at some point or
you get to the very top of the building.
The top floor, and you either find it or
not, but there's nowhere else to go.
So it helps me to think of it as
the Elevators or stairs in a building,
think about that process, okay.
>> Kyle: So that's nested Lexical Scopes,
we're gonna take our break here for today.
We're gonna meet back tomorrow
morning sharp at 9:30 and
we'll pick up continuing
with Lexical Scopes.
Thanks and have a great night.